---
title: May 2016 Release
tags:
- Cloud
- Releases
- "2016"
category: help
menu:
  help:
    parent: cloud-releases
    weight: 201605
aliases:
- /cloud/releases/may-2016
---
## Release Notes

### Changes:

* Upgrade to reCaptcha 2 ("NoCaptcha").
* Make "NBBC" our new BBCode parsing library by default (no more plugin).
* Add ability for SAML SSO to not be the default login method.
* Allow moving a discussion between subcommunities.
* Add support for switching subcommunities.
* Improve category scaling.
* Make activities self-prune after 2 months to improve performance.
* Always redirect to the first page after saving a discussion.
* Add analytics tracking for Q&A's accepted answers (coming soon to analytics).
* Allow censoring content in conversation message notifications.
* Allow censoring poll votes in comments.
* Fix a number of edge cases where certain actions could block other actions without a page refresh.
* Fix condition where category announcements disappeared from recent discussions page.
* Add caching for the default authentication provider.
* Improve security in signin redirects.
* Improve use of 'Alt' CSS class, which will be removed eventually (now redundant with current CSS specs).
* Add option to configure a redirect after logout on Auth0 plugin.
* Update Triple-A and Bootstrap 3 themes.
* Fix issue where Vimeo and Instagram embeds overflow out of the Best Of Tiles.
* Fix where SplitMerge addon may be unable to save split discussion with "Html" format.
* Fix the love bug (various problems with < 3 in user-generated content).
* Prevent unneeded recurring updates in dashboard's database updater.
* Fix Gravatar's use of system default avatar.
* Add optional rating parameter to Gravatar.
* Fix GitHub signin and API permission issues.
* Fix new discussion button showing in subcommunity when user has no permission.
* Allow the Photo field to be set in /profile/edit.
* Only use CommentID for spam check if available.
* Fix incorrect permission being checked in some category management actions.
* Groups: Simplify & fix event timezone handling.
* Make initial spoiler text the same colour as its background.
* Fix RSS title encoding.
* Add the ability to capture a user's time zone.
* Fix LinkedIn "profile connect" feature.
* Move Recaptcha into a plugin
* Add support for Instagram embeds in Mobile 2014.
* Do more image optimizations.
* Fix Safari issue where back button wouldn't refresh the page.
* Fixes issue where people can quote a post and see uncensored content.
* Remove gender from user-facing elements like registration.
* Prevent "Messages" from being displayed when you do not have view permission.
* QnA: Return the correct number of questions for a subcommunity.
* Switch YouTube links to https.
* Fix mention issues including using an '@' in the middle of two words.
* Fix PNG compression issues in file uploads.
* Fix some minor issues that could make spoilers malfunction.
* Add a safety feature to avoid too-big database changes all at once.
* Allow any user with moderate permission to add discussions and events in a group.
* Fix aggressive span stripping in the HTML purifier.