---
title: 2016 Cloud Releases
tags:
- Cloud
- Releases
- "2016"
category: help
menu:
  help:
    parent: releases
    weight: 201601
aliases:
- /cloud/releases/2016
---
## Release Notes

In 2016, VIP releases were every other month. Other customers received updates on an ad-hoc basis.

### December

* Add full IPv6 support.
* Add and improve addon icons.
* Add meta tags for discussion links to generate Twitter cards (when added to tweets).
* Add settings to Dashboard for category max display depth.
* Add some padding to HTML tables in posts (improve legibility).
* Add support for our new CDN.
* Add accessibility attributes to Customize Theme.
* Add pager to log views.
* Improve category headings detection and table view support.
* Improve markup of category settings page.
* Ensure password editing fields toggle appropriately.
* Allow removal of button from HTML email.
* Restore Theme Preview functionality (except for Mobile 2014).
* Default to secure cookies if "ForceSSL" is set and using HTTPS.
* Skip validating discussion title when a draft is saved.
* Improve markup and make further enhancements to Dashboard v3.
* Restrict upload filename to be per post instead of by entire discussion.
* Allow uploading a Photo when creating a new category.
* Avoid auto-scrolling to top when in comment embed.
* Confirm that user wants to delete images before deleting (in Dashboard).
* Update documentation links for Social Connect addons.
* Replace "Hide Category" with "Mute Category" option.
* Allow new messages to accept a subject parameter (if enabled) via URL.
* Fix delete message button (in Dashboard).
* Fix delete ban button (in Dashboard).
* Fix category depth calculation in subcommunities.
* Fix IP filtering on user management page
* Fix heading categories sometimes being wrapped in an anchor.
* Fix dashboard pager next button when there are 0 results.
* Fix the user photo in search.
* Fix extra &lt;br> tags in plain text emails.
* Fix issue where nav is cut off on category add/edit.
* Fix wrong heading for "activity" on profile page
* Fix activity notifications falsely flagging as sent when it was skipped.
* Fix ICO transparency issue after upload (in Dashboard).
* Fix permission check for Change Log page to allow moderators (Moderation.Manage).
* Fix avatar cropping in profile.
* jsConnect: Add warning to jsConnect dashboard when provider is in test mode.
* jsConnect: [Security] Add content-type to callback endpoint to prevent potential XSS.
* Badges: Add badge name as alt text to badge images.
* Badges: Add the ability to edit thresholds for some badges.
* Polls: Fix results percentage.
* Polls: Fix cancel button.
* Polls: Hide category dropdown when already inside a category.
* Polls: Fix auto-selecting first child category in category dropdown.
* Q&A: Fix auto-selecting first child category in category dropdown.
* Reactions: Add inform message to Reactions enable toggle (in Dashboard).
* Reactions: Fix RSS view when BestOf is configured as tiles.
* Reactions: Fix customizations reverting after database updates.
* Reactions: [Security] Add missing CSRF protection on "react" endpoint.
* Reactions: Fix reactions popup possible overlap.
* Reactions: Translate reaction names in navigation breadcrumbs.
* MailChimp: Fix issue with synchronizing lists.
* Profile Extender: Fix checkbox display on registration.
* Ignore: Fix failure to unignore user if their ignore privileges have been revoked.
* Groups: Fix search in groups when the category is not viewable.
* Warnings & Notes: Fix extra line after quote.
* Civil Tongue: Add support for groups and group events.
* Salesforce: Remove from options on profile social connect.
* Split/Merge: Make the System user the new discussion's author when splitting comments.
* SAML: Allow SAML to accommodate differently-configured XML responses. 
* SimpleAPI: Fix situations where other addons could conflict with API endpoints.

### September

* New Dashboard! This changed every page in the moderator/admin backend, including all addon settings pages.
* Add navigation memory to the Dashboard. It will now preserve menu collapsing states & your page within each section between visits.
* Add "Flat Categories" feature and optional navigation module. This allows browsing hundreds of categories as an alphabetical directory.
* Improve how categories are managed in the Dashboard.
* Categories now default to type "Nested" and must have a type assigned.
* Add full recipients list to Badges. Click the "Given" number from "Badges" in the Dashboard.
* Add new "Post Numbering" addon (by request only, currently).
* Add new "Role Tracker" addon (by request only, currently).
* Add ability to convert discussions to "ideas" (if Ideation is enabled).
* Add ability to configure warnings in Warnings & Notes addon.
* Add redirects for Lithium and Ning community imports (Redirector addon).
* Add support for vBulletin 3 & 4 showthread.php?p={POSTID} URL redirects.
* Allow "Location" and "Title" to be edited from User Edit.
* Fix Profile Extender's handling of non-ASCII characters in field names.
* Refactored how we handle all requests (dispatcher).
* Update MailChimp addon to use v3 of their API and support MailChimp "groups".
* Update Facebook addon to use versioned endpoint.
* Fix "Mark All Viewed" endpoint to prevent accidental or malicious triggering and fix its redirect.
* Fix Bootstrap3 theme color schemes "paper" and "sandstone".
* Remove "SafeStyles" option (previously deprecated).
* General addon code maintenance done on: Groups, Reactions, Ranks, Polls, SAMLSSO, and Badges.
* Fix issue with embedding where you could stay scrolled down when changing page.
* Add username validation to /message/add endpoint (when pre-filling "To:" field via URL).
* Fix conflict between Discussion Photos addon and Ideation addon.
* Add ability for Smarty templates to access `isMobile` function, `userAgentType` function, `homepage_title` function, and `Homepage` (boolean variable).
* Fix issue where default role settings weren't transferred from old system correctly.
* Add additional line break to welcome email.
* Do not wrap images in a div if they are already in an anchor to fix potential clicking issue.
* Fix autocomplete dropdown display in modals with Bootstrap3 theme.
* Add the post that a user was warned for in the email notification.
* Do not serve empty (or comment-only) CSS files from Custom Theme feature.
* Fix photos' URL for /user/summary API endpoint.
* Fix quotes that are done on a user with spaces in its name.
* Fix `tabindex` for comments, conversations, discussions (for keyboard navigation around page).
* Add announcements to discussions RSS (in posting order).
* Block adding banning rules that would HAL-9000 the entire crew, like `*.*`.
* Fix the basic (not advanced, which had no issue) search pager.
* Do not revalidate username on edit if no change on user edit.
* Do not send `noindex` meta on error pages to prevent legit pages from being un-indexed.
* Increase the priority of custom.css to be higher.
* Fix log link showing when no log exists.
* Allow "Unanswered Questions" page title to be translated (Q&A addon).
* Add support for alternate SAML document structures (SSO).
* Enforce max tags limit on the front end and cleanup tag validation.
* Encode slashes in usernames when creating profile links.
* Allow comment drafts to be orphaned (instead of removed) when their discussion is deleted and rework drafts view.
* Unregister plugins immediately after it has been disabled instead of waiting until the next page request.
* Hide email preferences when email is disabled globally.
* Hide the RSS icon from categories that are type 'Categories' since they contain no discussions.
* Trim all control characters from discussion title (helps prevent broken or blank titles).
* Fix scenario where discussion title could be blank.
* Fix user search to allow numeric usernames as long as it's an exact match.
* Akismet will now validate your key before accepting it (Cloud customers do not require their own key; it is optional).
* Improve Akismet addon description and deprecate TypePad option (no longer offered by TypePad).
* Hide Participated menu for guests (Participated addon).
* Let welcome email fallback to HomepageTitle when the site's name is not set properly.
* Turn off autocomplete on text fields when editing users in dashboard (to prevent accidental data insertion).
* Improve how table layouts choose their column widths according to the content in them.
* Improve Q&A and how it interacts with Subcommunities, especially displaying an Unanswered count per community.
* Change H2s for H1s for a few edit profile pages.
* Improve consistency in module (widget) titles (usually H4) so they are properly configurable.
* Add invited user data to user exports.
* Fix button height in Share This widget.
* Add OAuth2 library to core product for building custom implementations more easily.
* Fix potential duplicate rank promotion notifications.
* Change the priority order of the SimpleAPI plugin so Subcommunities does not interfere with API calls.

### July

* New plugin: Role Tracker (aggregates discussions with posts by users in particular roles).
* New plugin: Welcome Post (invites newly registered to start an intro discussion immediately).
* Upgrade to Smarty 3 templating engine for custom themes. It's a little bit stricter, faster, and more secure than Smarty 2 was.
* Further improve scaling for large numbers of categories. Faster page loads!
* Add option to exclude moderators and/or admins from leaderboards.
* Move profile thumbnail editing to same page as photo uploading.
* OpenID: Prevent bad rendering when URL is invalid.
* Don't show Google+ login when enabled but not configured.
* Add support for inline (async) forms for future Vanilla use.
* Keep attachments when a discussion becomes a comment via Split/Merge.
* Automatically update CSRF token with async requests. This is so we can invalidate them more frequently in the future, improving our security.
* Add the ideation page as a target for messages.
* Add the categories page as a target for messages.
* Set a limit on the page number in Best Of (it helps performance to not let pages go infinitely high).
* Fix edge cases where notifications preferences would not display completely.
* Tighten security of Target parameter during sign in to disallow bad redirects.
* Refresh the page after announcing a discussion.
* Markdown: Allow starting lists without a newline.
* Change how IP addresses are logged and allow IPv6 (no more 0.0.0.2 placeholder addresses appearing).
* Remove the invite feature from the Getting Started page.
* Remove site logo from Deflector theme footer.
* Fix Cyrillic character recognition in CivilTongueEx, allowing 
* Fix Ideation crashing /discussions/promoted.
* Fix default translation of "Post Discussion".
* QnA: Fix "unanswered" status for discussions converted to questions by an admin.
* Hub: Add synchronize for subcommunities and default locale.
* Fix emoji menu not being properly dismissed.
* Hide "Dismiss" option on announcements from guests because it didn’t actually do anything.
* Add CSRF prevention and remove redirect from Mark All Viewed option.
* Encode mail subject properly (UTF-8).
* Fix broken reaction pagination on profile pages.
* Fix emoji and mention from rendering inside WYSIWYG code blocks.
* Add $Homepage Smarty variable that is true/false depending on if you are on the homepage.
* Fix double encoding Open Graph title tag. This would have shown up as extra ampersands in Facebook shares and the like.
* Hub: Do not sync category permissions for an overridden role.
* Hub: Add optional landing page.
* Switch to separate library for password hashing. We're compartmentalizing some features like this to make maintenance easier.
* We completed some very large projects to carefully rework several parts of our framework to get ready for API v2, but there's no outward effect of this for you.


### May

* Upgrade to reCaptcha 2 ("NoCaptcha").
* Make "NBBC" our new BBCode parsing library by default (no more plugin).
* Add ability for SAML SSO to not be the default login method.
* Allow moving a discussion between subcommunities.
* Add support for switching subcommunities.
* Improve category scaling.
* Make activities self-prune after 2 months to improve performance.
* Always redirect to the first page after saving a discussion.
* Add analytics tracking for Q&A's accepted answers (coming soon to analytics).
* Allow censoring content in conversation message notifications.
* Allow censoring poll votes in comments.
* Fix a number of edge cases where certain actions could block other actions without a page refresh.
* Fix condition where category announcements disappeared from recent discussions page.
* Add caching for the default authentication provider.
* Improve security in signin redirects.
* Improve use of 'Alt' CSS class, which will be removed eventually (now redundant with current CSS specs).
* Add option to configure a redirect after logout on Auth0 plugin.
* Update Triple-A and Bootstrap 3 themes.
* Fix issue where Vimeo and Instagram embeds overflow out of the Best Of Tiles.
* Fix where SplitMerge addon may be unable to save split discussion with "Html" format.
* Fix the love bug (various problems with < 3 in user-generated content).
* Prevent unneeded recurring updates in dashboard's database updater.
* Fix Gravatar's use of system default avatar.
* Add optional rating parameter to Gravatar.
* Fix GitHub signin and API permission issues.
* Fix new discussion button showing in subcommunity when user has no permission.
* Allow the Photo field to be set in /profile/edit.
* Only use CommentID for spam check if available.
* Fix incorrect permission being checked in some category management actions.
* Groups: Simplify & fix event timezone handling.
* Make initial spoiler text the same colour as its background.
* Fix RSS title encoding.
* Add the ability to capture a user's time zone.
* Fix LinkedIn "profile connect" feature.
* Move Recaptcha into a plugin
* Add support for Instagram embeds in Mobile 2014.
* Do more image optimizations.
* Fix Safari issue where back button wouldn't refresh the page.
* Fixes issue where people can quote a post and see uncensored content.
* Remove gender from user-facing elements like registration.
* Prevent "Messages" from being displayed when you do not have view permission.
* QnA: Return the correct number of questions for a subcommunity.
* Switch YouTube links to https.
* Fix mention issues including using an '@' in the middle of two words.
* Fix PNG compression issues in file uploads.
* Fix some minor issues that could make spoilers malfunction.
* Add a safety feature to avoid too-big database changes all at once.
* Allow any user with moderate permission to add discussions and events in a group.
* Fix aggressive span stripping in the HTML purifier.

### March

* New addon: Ideation (vote on ideas) - Contact your CSM for more details
* New addon: Microsoft Account SSO
* New addon: CAS SSO
* New addon: Keyword Blocker (send posts with certain keywords to mod queue)
* New addon: Necro Posts (labels recently-revived discussions)
* New addon: User Points Booster (allow awarding points for discussions or comments)
* New addon: Whitelist (provide an IP whitelist for site access)
* HTML emails now available.
* Applicants list is now asynchronous with improved UI.
* Spoilers added as core feature with updated formatting.
* Automatic bans (from Banning rules) can now be reversed.
* Reactions will now always show on all devices, instead of on-hover for larger screens ("desktop").
* Sign In form now auto-focuses on Username field.
* Fix newest comment data for zero-comment discussions in table view.
* Post excerpts (as in search) now have a minimum length of 32 even if a double-return is found first.
* Remove line breaks in meta description.
* Added events to support new analytics system.
* Fix styling of '/me' posts.
* QnA: Allow users to accept their own answer.
* Reactions: Add an option to allow users to react to their own posts.
* Add advanced editor options to New Poll screen.
* Fix plus signs in URLs, especially usernames / profiles.
* Improve SSO workflow for existing usernames.
* Rework discussion sorting and filtering architecture.
* Add no-store header to profiles so read/unread status updates on Back button.
* Pockets: fix repeating pockets between discussions, and enable on table view.
* Subcommunities: Fix category dropdown filtering when in a subcommunity.
* Hide editor toolbar when previewing.
* Fix double-deletion of comment drafts when posting, which could cause a Javascript error.
* Fix scenario where Quotes could interfere with Spoilers.
* Vanillicons: Now defaults to v2.
* NBBC: Fix scenario that could break search results formatting.
* Fix opaque photo cropping box.
* Fix and unify logic for determining permission to edit a user's photo.
* Allow quotes to be collapsed in reported posts.
* Allow collapsing of quotes with alternate formatting.
* Make even deeply-nested quotes minimally legible.
* Update dropdown menu rendering in several places.
* Update number formatting for discussion & comment counts on All Categories page.
* Update stock themes for Ideation.
* Groups: Allow anyone who can edit an event to also delete it.

### January

* Restore no-store header to discussion & category lists (fixes "read" markers not updating on "Back").
* Improved formatting of Vanilla Comments in certain input formats.
* Updated Smarty template parsing library.
* Fix an issue in draft saving.
* Fix spam deletion error.
* Update Editor to use files' real names when downloading.
* Fix RSS feed when table view is in use.
* Remove deprecated form field name prefixing.
* Add more category data to VanillaPop emails.
* Update gifv embed to prefer WebM.
* Various low-level fixes for PHP 7 compatibility.
* Fix CSRF check when deleting a ban.
* Close open redirect & fix flood control in database updating endpoint.
* Improve security in how Vimeo is embedded.
* Add Wistia embed.
* Enforce POST data for several endpoints.
* Improve theme compatibility with Groups.
* Automatically remove spaces around Banning rules to prevent bad data being entered.
* Improve image resizing to always use highest quality images possible.
* Fix Facebook SSO: retrieval of email address, avatar distortion, & name overwriting.
* Remove "dashboard" namespace from several dashboard URLs.
* Fix several MySQL strict mode errors.
* Remove livequery jQuery extension and all remaining uses of it.
* Remove base64 encoding from all asynchronous requests.
* Allow setting of avatar via API.
* Allow category permissions to be set via API.
* Allow certain configurations to be set depending on permission level.
* Re-add user count to the user list whenever possible based on size of table.
* Give full formatting bar to Activity form.
