---
title: 2018 Cloud Releases
tags:
- Cloud
- Releases
- "2018"
category: help
menu:
  help:
    parent: releases
    weight: 201601
aliases:
- /cloud/releases/2018
---
## Release Notes

### Vanilla 2.6 p4 (9 May 2018)

Notes.
* Removed canonical URLs from our 404 views.
* Fixed a bug that caused announcements to be filtered out of recent discussions intermittently 
* Added a script that allows Bootstrap3, Cornerstone, Deflector and Triple A themes to opt into autocomplete search results. 
* Removed category following filter from pages where it is irrelevant.
* Added a check to prevent Ideation from displaying the New Idea option to users without the appropriate permission.
* Fixed score calculation on discussions converted to ideas so that unrelated reactions no longer inappropriately adjust the total votes. 
* Added whitelist exceptions to our new MIME type validator for file uploads.
* Fixed a memory issue that was causing the Bulk Importer to fail. 
* Fixed a memory issue that was associated with Advanced Search
* Fixed a conflict that was causing the Groups page to crash

_All fixes below this line were included in the open source 2.6 release, where applicable._

### Vanilla 2.6 p3 (9 May 2018)

* Fix translations for file upload error messages.
* Fix subcommunities disabling "New Idea" button.
* Fix Google+ SSO link to signin.
* Fix deletion of items in moderation queue.
* Fix filtering followed categories on deep branch (performance issue).
* Fix "time left to edit" messages.
* Fix bookmarking of discussions in Groups.
* Fix idea API edits not being reflected on discussion pages.
* Make 'image upload' button on by default in Editor.
* Security fix related to remote page info fetching.

### Vanilla 2.6 p2 (19 April 2018)

* Fix user search by IP never returning results
* Restore breadcrumb to the bottom of discussions.
* Add more logging jsConnect to asssit debugging.
* Fix issue where drafts could be overwritten.
* Fix issue where the database was being over-queried (introduced in 2.6).
* Increase subcommunity page limit to 100.
* Adjust comment editing permission checks to avoid re-querying the database unnecessarily.

### Vanilla 2.6 p1 (12 April 2018)

* Filter values sent over SAML before putting them into the User table to prevent accidental overwrites.
* Author Selector: Fix broken menu option.
* Fix Bootstrap 1 theme's navigation.
* Add caching to subcommunity query for the default site to reduce database load.
* Fix ability to delete items in moderation logs.
* Fix spider crawling errors for non-existent pages.
* Add logging to JSConnect to assist in debugging.


### Vanilla 2.6 (5 April 2018)

**Category Following**

* Users may now "Follow" categories.
* Recent Discussions page may be filtered to only show discussions from followed categories.
* This feature must be enabled in the Dashboard. 
* Enabling it adds a new menu to the Recent Discussions page, so theming conflicts should be checked.
* We removed the old "Mute" function for categories to make room for this new feature.

**Hero Image addon**

* Adds theming functionality to easily add a large custom image per page.
* See notes at https://docs.vanillaforums.com/help/addons/hero-image/

**API v2 new endpoint support for the following features:**

* Badges
* Polls
* Q&A
* Ideation 
* Ranks
* Search

**Changes & Additions:**

* Add Analytics.Data.View permission to grant non-administrators analytics view access.
* API change: A discussion that is an Idea or Question can no longer be updated or deleted from the discussion endpoint. It must use the new Ideation or Q&A endpoints. This prevents loss of data integrity for their current status.
* API: Add pagination information to response headers for multiple endpoints.
* API: Add filtering by archived status to categories endpoint.
* Allow the API v2 to authenticate with API v1 access tokens.
* API docs: Parameters of type 'enum' now correctly list all values that are accepted.
* Fix image upload button not always appearing in Advanced Editor and Signature editing.
* Fix filter menus showing for guests on Recent Discussions and categories root.
* Add "none found" message to category pages with no categories.
* Fix image cropper overflow when editing avatars.
* Fix discussion Q&A status for edited and deleted comments.
* Fix Keyword Blocker setting updating user as insert user when editing post.
* Fix broken links to theme documentation from dashboard.
* RoleTracker: Move Untrack option into a popup.
* Reactions: Fix text truncation on profiles.
* Update redirection after adding a category.
* Fix redirect to after deleting group discussion.
* Improve UX when attempting to join a group without being signed in.
* Update System user's default avatar.
* Accessibility improvements.
* Security enhancements.


### Vanilla 2.5 p2 (4 January)

* Bulk User Import: Fix resending of invitations.
* Rename database column GDN_Session.DateExpire to DateExpires to match conventions and fix structure update problem.

*These changes were made prior to the open source release of 2.5:*

* Fix core version number check to read from environment.php instead of index.php.
* Move addon deprecation hook earlier to disable old HtmLawed addon (now a core feature).
* Fix potential deprecated HtmLawed addon issue in open source installs by including a dummy file in the directory.
* Fix generating user tokens from profile pages.

### Vanilla 2.5 p1 (20 December 2017)

* Fix link to the last comment in a discussion (the timestamp link on the discussions table view).
* Groups: Fix issue where clicking Quote could lead to a permission error in Group-related discussions.
* Fix issue that could lead to the discussion title being omitted from notification email subject lines.

*Vanilla 2.5 was released to cloud on 6 December 2017 and packaged for official open source distribution on 23 December 2017. Patch-level releases are only made to cloud.*

