---
title: July 2016 Release
tags:
- Cloud
- Releases
- "2016"
category: help
menu:
  help:
    parent: releases
    weight: 201607
aliases:
- /cloud/releases/july-2016
---
## Release Notes

### Changes:

 * New plugin: Role Tracker (aggregates discussions with posts by users in particular roles).

 * New plugin: Welcome Post (invites newly registered to start an intro discussion immediately).

 * Upgrade to Smarty 3 templating engine for custom themes. It's a little bit stricter, faster, and more secure than Smarty 2 was.

 * Further improve scaling for large numbers of categories. Faster page loads!

 * Add option to exclude moderators and/or admins from leaderboards.

 * Move profile thumbnail editing to same page as photo uploading.

 * OpenID: Prevent bad rendering when URL is invalid.

 * Don't show Google+ login when enabled but not configured.

 * Add support for inline (async) forms for future Vanilla use.

 * Keep attachments when a discussion becomes a comment via Split/Merge.

 * Automatically update CSRF token with async requests. This is so we can invalidate them more frequently in the future, improving our security.

 * Add the ideation page as a target for messages.

 * Add the categories page as a target for messages.

 * Set a limit on the page number in Best Of (it helps performance to not let pages go infinitely high).

 * Fix edge cases where notifications preferences would not display completely.

 * Tighten security of Target parameter during sign in to disallow bad redirects.

 * Refresh the page after announcing a discussion.

 * Markdown: Allow starting lists without a newline.

 * Change how IP addresses are logged and allow IPv6 (no more 0.0.0.2 placeholder addresses appearing).

 * Remove the invite feature from the Getting Started page.

 * Remove site logo from Deflector theme footer.

 * Fix Cyrillic character recognition in CivilTongueEx, allowing 

 * Fix Ideation crashing /discussions/promoted.

 * Fix default translation of "Post Discussion".

 * QnA: Fix "unanswered" status for discussions converted to questions by an admin.

 * Hub: Add synchronize for subcommunities and default locale.

 * Fix emoji menu not being properly dismissed.

 * Hide "Dismiss" option on announcements from guests because it didn’t actually do anything.

 * Add CSRF prevention and remove redirect from Mark All Viewed option.

 * Encode mail subject properly (UTF-8).

 * Fix broken reaction pagination on profile pages.

 * Fix emoji and mention from rendering inside WYSIWYG code blocks.

 * Add $Homepage Smarty variable that is true/false depending on if you are on the homepage.

 * Fix double encoding Open Graph title tag. This would have shown up as extra ampersands in Facebook shares and the like.

 * Hub: Do not sync category permissions for an overridden role.

 * Hub: Add optional landing page.

 * Switch to separate library for password hashing. We're compartmentalizing some features like this to make maintenance easier.

 * We completed some very large projects to carefully rework several parts of our framework to get ready for API v2, but there's no outward effect of this for you.
